[Music]
30 eye-opening comparisons that will
turn your world upside down whether
you're a history buff or a computer whiz
we often feel pretty confident about the
world around us that being said it
sometimes gets a bit difficult to
comprehend two mind-bending phenomena
time and size but if you try to look at
them from a different angle for instance
with the help of comparison the picture
immediately gets much clearer and much
more astonishing in today's video we
have 30 eye-opening comparisons that put
huge numbers into perspective for you
spoiler alert once you know about them
your world will never be the same but
before we drop your jaw wily coyote
style don't forget to hit that red
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell that way you'll always
be the first to see all the fun and
informative videos coming out every
single day on the bright side of life
okay
now let's kick this list off one in one
single day mosquitos kill more people
than sharks do in a century in 2016
alone mosquito bites led to 1470 deaths
a day yet it took the infamous shark 100
years from 1916 to 2016 to kill 1,000 35
people the thing is that mosquito
spreads serious diseases like malaria
each year hundreds of millions of people
suffer from this terrible illness in
fact a child dies from malaria every two
minutes and still people are more afraid
of sharks than these little bloodsuckers
even though you're 50 thousand times
less likely to die from a shark attack
believe it or not the mosquito is the
most deadly creature in the world
to almost everything you see is from the
past people can perceive in real time
only those objects that are located
right next to them but the further from
an object you are the further back in
time you see it for instance if your
friend waves at you from a mile away
about zero point zero zero zero zero
zero five three six eight seconds passed
before you see them do it and if that
friend were to wave at you from NASA's
Voyager one space probe their greeting
would reach you fifteen and a half hours
later three Cleopatra was closer in time
to space exploration than to the
construction of the great Egyptian
pyramids the pyramids had been around
for approximately 2,500 years before the
Queen was born as for the first moon
landing it happened about two thousand
years after Cleopatra's reign for one
second can be a very long period of time
the shortest possible unit of time is
Planck time that's how long it takes
light to cross one Planck length which
is the shortest possible distance in a
vacuum it's hard to imagine but there
are more units of Planck time in a
single second than there have been
seconds since the Big Bang five the Star
Trek franchise will turn 52 years old on
September 8 2018 without ads you need
approximately 22 days or 531 hours to
watch all the TV series plus one more
day or 25.2 five hours to see all the
movies that's some binge watching I'm
totally down for as long as you can be
me up some snacks and drinks while I
watch six if an atom were the size of a
football stadium its nucleus would be no
bigger than a pea lying on the 50-yard
line seven if your arm span represented
the entire history of living creatures
on Earth from the single-celled
organisms on the tip of your left hand
to today's world on the very tip of your
right you could shave off all the
recorded human history by grazing your
fingernail with a nail file
eight frozen drinks are actually much
cheaper than you think the frozen drink
markup is 980 percent that means that a
drink you purchase for two dollars cost
the retail approximately 19 cents nine
homosapiens first record dates four
hundred thousand years back yeah that
dust that went flying when you filed
your nail during all this time the
fastest man on earth who's st. bolt
could have already made 14 Sprint's to
Pluto and back ten if the density of the
world population suddenly became as high
as it is in Manhattan
all the people on our planet would fit
inside Colorado eleven if the earth was
shrunk to the size of a billiard ball
our planet would be the smoother of the
two twelve people have spent
approximately 4.8 million hours playing
pacman that's about 548 years which is
longer than the existence of the Roman
Empire and Billy Mitchell only accounts
for about half of that 13 if one day a
supernova happened as far away as the
Sun and you were to glance at it it
would be 9 times brighter than a nuclear
bomb that went off in front of your face
14 in 1860 people needed four months to
get from Missouri to Oregon via the
Oregon Trail 100 years later and Apollo
11 took only four days to get to the
moon 15
edia one of the first electronic
general-purpose computers would have
needed 2 years to perform all the
operations and ipad does in a second 16
let's imagine that the time dinosaurs
roam the planet about 160 million years
is represented by the distance between
Los Angeles and New York which is 2700
89 miles in this case the time people
have been around about 200,000 years
will take you no further than Boyle
Heights which is about 4 miles from
downtown LA
17 France was still using the guillotine
to execute people when the world saw the
Apple 2 computer in June 1977 the last
time a guillotine was used was in
September of the same year 18 if the
Milky Way galaxy was the same size as
the u.s. our solar system would be as
big as a quarter 19 Warren Buffett has
so much money that for him to spend
$700,000 it's like buying a can of soda
for the average American 20 if you could
get one dollar for every second of your
life it would take you less than two
weeks to have $1,000,000 at the same
time to accumulate 1 billion you've
needed 31 years 21 people took one
trillion photos in 2015 this means that
in just one minute people took more
photos than all of humanity took in the
whole 19th century if you printed all
the photos that were taken in 2015 and
line them dup they would stretch for
over 200 million miles that's more than
enough to get to the Sun and back 22
wooly mammoths who were still around
when the Great Pyramid of Giza was being
constructed most of these animals died
out about 10,000 years ago but there was
a small population that still lived on
Wrangel Island until 1650 BCE and that's
about 1,000 years after the construction
of the pyramids had been finished 23 if
the flu virus was 3 feet long the size
of a red blood cell would be about as
big as a Boeing 747 24 if our planet was
the size of your typical classroom globe
then all the oceans would be no deeper
than 0.04 inches
25 the smallest cat in the world is 7.5
inches long that's the size of a
full-grown guinea pig 26 if Bill Gates
decided to spend his current net worth
before he turned 80 he would have to
spend nine point seven million dollars a
day that's enough money to buy 35
average American homes 37 the blue whale
is the biggest animal that has ever
lived on earth it can grow up to 100
feet long
Toronto's CN tower was the tallest
construction in the world from 1976 to
2007 its height is more than 1,800 feet
that means it's taller than 18 blue
whales if you stack them vertically nose
to tail yet the Toronto tower would look
tiny in comparison to the 6500 foot
glacier that used to cover the city
during the latest ice age 28 its
outnumber humans pretty impressively
there are 1.4 million ants for each
person 29 on the same note the star
seriously outnumber ants there are 30
million stars for each ant
30 the eyes of the giant squid are the
biggest in the animal kingdom
its massive eyeball can have a diameter
of 10 inches that's bigger than a
standard size basketball which is only 9
inches across which comparison shocked
you the most do you know any other facts
do you know any other facts that can
dazzle us write about them in the
comments below hit the like button if we
manage to get at least one whoa out of
you during the video and remember to
subscribe to the channel to stay with us
on the bright side of life see you next
time
you